=head1 NAME

B<saga_cmd> - command-line interface to the System for Automated Geoscientific Analyses

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<saga_cmd> [B<-d, --docs>]

B<saga_cmd> [B<-b, --batch>]

B<saga_cmd> [B<-h, --help>]

B<saga_cmd> [B<-f, --flags>][=qrsilpxo][-s, --story][=#][-c, --cores][=#] I<LIBRARY> [I<MODULE>] <module specific options...>

B<saga_cmd> [B<-f, --flags>][=qrsilpxo][-s, --story][=#][-c, --cores][=#] I<SCRIPT>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SAGA GIS (System for Automated Geoscientific Analysis) is a free and open source geographic information system used for editing and analysing spatial data. It includes a large number of modules for the analysis of vector, table, grid and image data.

The SAGA command line interpreter is particularly useful for the processing
of complex work flows by defining a series of subsequent tool calls in a
script file. Calling saga_cmd with the option 'B<-b>' or 'B<--batch>' will
create an example of a DOS batch script file, which might be a good starting
point for the implementation of your own specific work flows.

When run without arguments, the module libraries in the current module library are listed. By default this is the directory which was set at installtion (/usr/lib/saga). This can be overwritten by setting the environment variable I<SAGA_MLB>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=item [I<SAGA_MLB>=dirname]

Module libraries are expected to be located in the directory that is specified by the environment variable 'SAGA_MLB'. If this is not found the module installation directory (/usr/lib/saga) will be searched for instead.

=item I<LIBRARY> [I<MODULE>] [I<MODULE OPTIONS>]

Specify the library (ie ta_morphometry) and the module (number or name). If no module is specified the different modules of a library are listed.

=item B<-h, --help>

Display help and exit

=item B<-d, --docs>

Create tool documentation in the current working directory

=item B<-b, --batch>

Create batch file examples in the current working directory

=item B<-c, --cores>

Number of physical processors to use for computation


=item B<-f, --flags>

Various flags for general usage [qrsilpxo]

=over 9

=item B<q>
No progress report

=item B<r>
No messages report

=item B<s>
Silent mode (no progress and no messages report)

=item B<i>
Allow user interaction

=item B<l>
Load translation dictionary

=item B<p>
Load projections dictionary

=item B<x>
Use XML markups for synopses and messages

=item B<o>
Load old style naming

=back

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

export SAGA_MLB=/usr/lib/saga

B<saga_cmd> ta_morphometry "Local Morphometry" -ELEVATION dem.sgrd -SLOPE slope.sgrd -ASPECT aspect.sgrd -METHOD 1

Multiple input files can be specified by separating them by a semicolon (;).

B<saga_cmd> libgrid_tools Merging -GRIDS test1.sgrd\;test2.sgrd -GRID_TARGET merged.sgrd

=head1 BUGS

On the website of I<http://www.saga-gis.org>, a list of known bugs can be found and new bug reports can be submitted.

=head1 AUTHORS

B<SAGA> was written by Olaf Conrad with help from a large number of contributors. This manual page was written by Johan Van de Wauw.
Both are released under the GNU General Public License v2.

More info  I<http://www.saga-gis.org>

Please provide the following reference in your work if you are using SAGA:

Conrad, O., Bechtel, B., Bock, M., Dietrich, H., Fischer, E., Gerlitz, L.,
Wehberg, J., Wichmann, V., and Boehner, J. (2015):
System for Automated Geoscientific Analyses (SAGA) v. 2.1.4.
Geosci. Model Dev., 8, 1991-2007, doi:10.5194/gmd-8-1991-2015.

I<http://www.geosci-model-dev.net/8/1991/2015/gmd-8-1991-2015.html>


=cut
